# Automatic-Attendance-System
ABSTRACT: The attendance is taken in every organization. Traditional approach for attendance is, professor calls student name & record attendance. For each lecture, this is wastage of time. To avoid these losses, we are about to use automatic process which is based on image processing. In this project approach, we are using face detection & face recognition system. The first phase is preprocessing where the face detection is processed through the step image processing. It includes the face detection and face recognition process. Second phase is feature extraction. Step by step execution of these techniques (Image Processing) helps to achieve the final output. The working of this project is to detect and recognize the face and mark the attendance for the corresponding face in the database. Input of this project is face detection and recognition and output is to mark the attendance. Our project is being presented as a solution for the Automatic Attendance Marking System. It is designed to be reliable and low power. The Automatic face detection and recognition proposed to attendance marking in database acts as the solution for the automatic attendance marking system. Keywords: Attendance system, Automated attendance, Image Processing, Face detection, Feature matching, Face recognition. INTRODUCTION: Human face plays an important role in our day to day life mostly for identification of a person. Face recognition is a part of biometric identification that extracts the facial features of a face, and then stores it as a unique face print to uniquely recognize a person. Biometric face recognition technology has gained the attention of many researchers because of its wide application. Face recognition technology is better than other biometric based recognition techniques like finger-print, palm-print, iris because of its non-contact process. Recognition techniques using face recognition can also recognize a person from a distance, without any contact or interaction with person. The face recognition techniques are currently implemented in social media websites like Facebook, at the airports, railway stations. The, at crime investigations. Face recognition technique can also be used in crime reports, the captured photo can be stored in a database, and can be used to identify a person. Facebook uses the facial recognition technique for automating the process of tagging people. For face recognition we require large dataset and complex features to identify a person in all conditions like change of illumination, age, pose, etc. Recent researches show there is a betterment in facial recognition systems. In the last ten years there is huge development in recognition techniques. But currently most of the facial recognition techniques is able to work fine only if the number of people in one frame is very few and under controlled illumination, proper position of faces and clear images. For face recognition purpose, there is a need for large data sets and complex features to uniquely identify the different subjects by manipulating different obstacles like illumination, pose and aging. During the recent few years, a good improvement has been made in facial recognition systems. In comparison to the last decade, one can observe an enormous development in the world of face recognition. Currently, most of the facial recognition systems perform well with limited faces in the frame. Moreover, these methodologies have been tested under controlled lighting conditions, proper face poses and non- blurry images. The system that is proposed for face recognition in this paper for attendance system is able to recognize multiple faces in a frame without any control on illumination, position of face.

